Court is now in session.
Defendant, step forward.
An attorney defends human rights
against authority.
An attorney's mission
is to serve the people.
Now, the defendant…
But they can't serve everyone.
An attorney can only protect their client,
even if the client
is labeled a villain by society.
The defendant
is not guilty.
Hooray!
Order!
When you save one,
you bring sorrow to another.
You crooked lawyer!
Defending someone like that…
You're the devil too!
Order in the court, please.
An attorney always bears
the weight of this sin.
And…
Attorney Kujo.
So you wear that attorney's badge
to protect evildoers, huh?
Hey!
Good attorneys
have nasty personalities.
TOKYO
Oh, hello. Shinji Karasuma speaking.
Are you sure this map is accurate?
Hello?
Are you listening, Ms. Yakushimae?
Huh? Oh, yes. Whatcha got?
I have no idea where I'm going
with this map you drew.
What do you mean?
I drew it in detail, didn't I?
How is this detailed--
See? You just tripped, didn't you?
-Didn't I draw that?
-What?
NARROW, CATS, TOILET, GRILLED MEAT
UNEVEN GROUND!
Anyway, just give me the address.
I'll use a map app.
I'm telling you, that's the quickest way.
You're almost there.
NO ILLEGAL PARKING
I found it. New City 21 Building.
Okay. Just go inside.
What? Inside?
Are you sure it's here?
Sorry. I'm a bit busy, so I'm hanging up.
Hold on a sec.
Hello?
Excuse me.
KUJO LAW OFFICE
THIS WAY
There it is.
KUJO LAW OFFICE
IF YOU NEED ME, I'M ON THE ROOF
Excuse me, but are you Attorney Kujo?
-I'm Shinji Karasuma. I phoned earlier.
-Just a moment, please.
What are you…
Lunch.
Hamburger steak with a fried egg.
Want some?
Oh, no, no… I'm good.
Well, is this place…?
My house.
Your house?
This is where I live.
So have you had a chance
to go over my résumé?
No, I haven't.
What…?
But I heard about you from Ms. Yakushimae.
Top graduate of the Faculty of Law,
University of Tokyo.
Employed at one of the Big Four firms,
Higashimura Yuhi Law Firm.
With such great experience,
why do you wanna work here?
Have you seen this?
CROOKED LAWYER
Do you know that people call you
a crooked lawyer?
Like gang-led fraud schemes
or violent biker gang assaults…
To put it bluntly,
why do you always defend bad guys?
Attorney Karasuma.
Yes?
Is this my interview?
Oh, no…
I didn't mean it like that.
Mibu!
Morita, we're closed today.
I'm sorry.
I had a bit of an accident.
Can you fix it so I can take my girlfriend
out for a drive this weekend?
No can do.
Hit-and-run, right?
You're definitely gonna get caught.
What?
This dent's from a crash
you couldn't avoid.
The paint's chipped too.
With that, they can tell
the car's color, year, and model.
Your car may not be
on the crash-site camera,
but it'll definitely show up
on other cameras nearby.
The police will catch you soon.
Seriously?
What should I do, Mibu?
I'll introduce you to a lawyer.
Thank you for the meal.
Attorney Kujo.
KENGO MIBU
Yes, Kujo speaking.
Attorney Kujo.
I've got a favor to ask.
It's kind of urgent.
I see. Understood. I'll be waiting.
A defense request?
Yes.
It's a traffic accident, apparently.
I'll help.
Thank you very much.
Then, can you take this?
Huh?
You just said that you'd help.
The sink's that way.
I've finished, Attorney Kujo.
Thank you very much.
So is this place…
It used to be a night pub,
and I rented it as is.
Use the space around there.
Around here?
Oh, Ms. Yakushimae uses that
when she comes, so…
-Sorry for the short notice.
-Oh.
-Please.
Who's this?
My name is Shinji Karasuma,
and I'm an attorney.
An attorney?
Please rest assured
that he's way more competent than I am.
-Attorney Karasuma.
-Yes?
Serve them some tea.
What?
Please.
Sure.
Oh, okay.
So,
what's the situation?
Morita,
explain it to him.
Yes.
Um,
I was driving my car,
and I accidentally hit something.
What exactly was it?
Um,
well…
Please tell me honestly.
It's an attorney's duty
to protect their client.
Were you on your smartphone at the time?
No, well…
You smell like alcohol.
Were you driving drunk?
What? No, of course not.
It's okay.
We're the only ones listening.
I'm sorry.
I happened to see
a rare character on my phone.
And I was drinking until noon.
Drunk driving and gaming?
Quite the scumbag.
Attorney Karasuma.
If the police reach out
to the game company,
they can trace when and where
you were playing the game.
You shouldn't say you were playing a game.
Oh… Okay.
Um, if the person I hit died,
would the charges be more serious?
Excuse me.
I have severe allergic rhinitis.
If you were driving under the influence,
speeding, and distracted,
it'd be dangerous driving,
punishable by up to 20 years in prison.
If it's negligent driving causing death,
you'd get a suspended sentence.
Whether it's dangerous
or negligent driving
will determine your future.
It'll depend on Attorney Kujo.
What…
No way, Mibu!
I don't wanna end up
in prison for 20 years.
Damn it.
I really hope
the guy I hit is still alive.
The victim's statement
can complicate the case.
Huh?
So it's better if the victim is dead.
Attorney Kujo's seriously messed up.
Then they can't take a statement.
With no objective evidence
to prove anything, we can win.
Give me your phone.
I'm gonna talk to myself out loud.
Talk to yourself?
A smartphone holds a lot of evidence.
Let's leave it here.
If the police ask you to hand over
your smartphone, tell them you lost it.
Your wallet.
If you have bar receipts,
throw them all away.
Oh, okay.
Turn yourself in
once you're completely sober.
A detox drug, Tathion,
helps eliminate alcohol.
It's effective, even for meth,
but is typically
only prescribed in hospitals.
So,
go to a sauna and sweat it out.
A sauna? Got it.
It's late, but going to the police
with an attorney
still counts as turning yourself in.
Listen, Mr. Morita.
Regarding the location of the collision,
the traffic light color, or the speed,
you can't make any statements about them.
Still, if you show up and stay silent,
it's going to look suspicious.
So you'll admit to hitting something.
But refrain from saying anything further.
That's the safest approach.
Okay.
During the questioning
at the police station,
there's only one thing you should do.
Huh?
Don't say anything unnecessary.
That's all.
Understood, sir.
It's going to be okay.
You'll be out after 20 days.
I'll be out?
You'll be released.
Ryota? Ryota, can you hear me?
-He's becoming less responsive.
-Okay. Attaching the ECG leads.
Putting on the blood pressure cuff.
Excuse me for a second.
Mrs. Minegishi,
how's your son?
He's still in surgery.
I see.
But
my husband…
My husband…
They said he died instantly.
JAPAN'S TOP TAKOYAKI
"Japan's top takoyaki!"
Yes?
The sign we just saw said,
"Japan's top takoyaki," right?
Oh, did it?
Well, doesn't it make you want to try it?
No, not particularly.
It's unclear what defines it
as the best in Japan anyway.
Self-proclaiming it isn't enough?
But are they using
"Japan's top" or "world's first"
in ads without objective evidence?
It may defy the Unjustifiable Premiums Act
or the Unfair Competition Prevention Act.
So straitlaced.
-Great educational background.
-It's nothing to do with my education.
I feel uneasy
when things aren't well defined.
Then what about "Japan's Funniest Osaki"?
What's that?
You don't know?
There's a comedian duo called "Champions,"
and the straight man calls himself
"Japan's Funniest Osaki."
Is that a crime too?
Yes, if he's not Japan's funniest.
-What about "Nabeatsu of the World"?
-Nabeatsu?
He now goes by Sando Katsura.
He was the funny man of the duo Jarism.
He was all the rage for a counting gag,
acting goofy at every multiple of three
or any number with a three.
He calls himself "Nabeatsu of the World,"
but it's not a claim to being number one.
It doesn't break the law--
Hey!
What the hell have you guys
been rambling on about?
I couldn't care less
about takoyaki or comedians!
I'm about to turn myself in to the police!
Can't you shut up for a bit?
I mean,
I couldn't say this in front of Mibu,
but are you sure you can handle this?
So should we call it off?
Huh?
But then you'll spend the next 20 years
unable to eat takoyaki
or watch comedy shows whenever you want.
Are you going with me
or not going?
Take control of your own life.
CHINESE CUISINE
BEIJING RESTAURANT
Wow. So you're the representative now.
Yeah.
The previous representative
retired due to old age,
so I took over.
That's impressive.
Your organization helps victims and
offenders reintegrate into society, right?
Yeah.
That's a job you can't do without passion.
We support the offenders
so they don't commit crimes again.
It's not passion.
Then what is it?
I want people to be able to go
to a convenience store late at night.
And I don't want to become
a victim of crime myself.
It's my own way
of preventing crime, I guess.
Excuse me.
One plate of gyoza,
pork and pepper stir-fry,
and lettuce and egg fried rice.
Oh, I'm already…
I'm going to eat it.
I've got to eat when I can,
or I won't hold up.
I see.
-Make it a large.
-Okay.
Thank you.
That aside,
you've got something
to talk to me about, right?
Whatcha got?
I wanted to thank you
for connecting me with Attorney Kujo.
How did it go?
I guess I'm currently
in the probationary period.
But are you actually serious?
I mean, being an attorney under someone
who could lose their badge any day…
I want to find out
whether Attorney Kujo
is a good attorney or a bad one.
You wanna ask me why, right?
My answer sounded like
there's some kind of backstory.
Good attorneys…
have nasty personalities.
-What?
-It's my personal theory.
-And Attorney Kujo?
-You're trying to figure that out.
I don't know why, though.
Yeah.
Well, let me know if you find out.
Yes, ma'am.
Did you know that he kept
his ex-wife's last name after the divorce?
What? No.
I think they have a daughter.
And when they got divorced,
he gave her all his assets.
Wow, he's a good person.
That means Attorney Kujo is…
Here's your gyoza.
That was fast!
-Thank you.
-There you go.
-Oh, can you…
-Sorry.
Here.
Boss, it's so delicious.
Thank you.
Mmm, it looks delicious.
Good morning.
Is that your breakfast, Attorney Kujo?
Yes.
Well, then.
-Do your best with Morita's case.
-Okay.
I hope you give it your best too,
Attorney Karasuma.
Huh?
Oh…
Yes.
What does Mibu do for a living?
Officially, he runs an auto repair shop,
but he seems to have ties
to anti-social groups.
Do we need to get along
with people like him?
Do I look like I'm close with him?
Yes.
Oh, speaking of which…
How did Morita's police questioning
about the traffic accident go?
It all went smoothly as planned.
All right. Let's go.
The victims were the father,
Masato Minegishi, aged 35,
and his son, Ryota, aged 6.
The accident happened
on their way home from nursery.
The father had been suffering
from depression
and was on leave from work.
Depression, huh?
And how is the father doing?
He died.
But something caught my attention.
The victim's bicycle,
captured on Morita's dashcam,
was already lying on the ground.
It was already lying there?
Also, the scene investigators
and the medical examiner
said the child was bleeding.
But there were no signs of bleeding
or vital reactions in the father's body.
What…
If he'd been alive when he was hit,
he should've bled significantly, right?
You're right.
So,
something felt off.
I looked into the medical records
from the hospital he'd been visiting.
He'd previously been rushed
to the hospital for a cardiac condition
and was prescribed heart medication.
A cardiac condition?
There's a possibility
that he had a heart attack,
collapsed on the road,
and died before Morita hit him.
Hold on.
So are you saying that the father's death
had nothing to do with the accident?
If that's the case,
the destruction of the corpse
due to Morita's negligence isn't a crime.
If he was already dead, it wouldn't be
negligent driving causing death either.
But Morita drank in broad daylight
and was distracted while driving
because of a game.
Just as you said, he is quite the scumbag.
So you do think so, too,
Attorney Kujo. Then--
But whether or not he's a scumbag
is irrelevant right now.
Whether the father was alive or dead
when Morita hit him…
That's all that matters.
And…
how is his 6-year-old son doing?
There were no life-threatening injuries.
It's just…
His left leg was amputated.
Ryota.
I'm sorry.
The verdict…
COURTHOUSE
The defendant is sentenced
to one year and eight months in prison.
Execution of the sentence
is suspended for three years
from the date this judgment
becomes final and binding.
Huh?
For real? The sentence is suspended?
Wait, no slammer for me?
Defendant, mind your language.
The following are the reasons
for the verdict.
On April 1st, 2025,
the defendant was driving
a standard passenger vehicle
near 6-14-5, Koto Ward, Tokyo.
He was heading northeast
from a southwest direction.
Thanks a bunch, sir!
Morita.
You're being treated to grilled meat
and a hostess club for your release!
For real? Meat?
-Yeah.
-It's been ages.
I'm dying for a freezing cold beer!
The accident occurred postmortem,
so Morita's not been held accountable.
But
apparently, they didn't hire a lawyer,
so the insurance company told them
to settle under the standard terms.
One leg of a child…
It's a Grade 4, Category 5 disability,
yet they settled for 40 million.
Ignorance is truly a sin, isn't it?
Attorney Kujo, how can you say that here?
Both Ryota and his mother…
lost their father and husband
in such a way.
If we defended the victim, we'd claim
lost future earnings and compensation.
We could've secured over 100 million,
and about five million more for six months
of hospitalization and outpatient care.
Yet, because of someone like that man,
their lives have been changed forever.
Attorney Karasuma,
an attorney should not act
based on personal beliefs or convictions.
I separate law and morality
in my thinking.
Even if something is morally unacceptable,
an attorney's mission
is to protect their client.
However,
when you protect your client,
you bring sorrow to the other party.
We attorneys must carry the weight
of that sin throughout our lives.
Did you defend an anti-social individual?
How much did you get paid for this case?
Attorney Kujo, if I'm ever in trouble,
make sure you defend me.
TRAFFIC ACCIDENT CLAIMS
STANDARDS FOR CALCULATING DAMAGES
LIST OF VERDICTS FOR NEGLIGENT DRIVING
Ms. Yakushimae?
Bit by bit… Yes.
As I said over the phone…
There we go.
But I don't think it's possible.
I understand that once a settlement has
been reached with the insurance company,
it's quite difficult to overturn it.
But how about filing a lawsuit
regarding your son's insurance?
I know a very reliable attorney.
It doesn't matter anymore.
I've lost the will to keep going.
That might be the case for you…
but Ryota probably doesn't feel
the same way.
He has to live on for decades to come.
For the sake of your son,
let's retry the case.
I told her.
What?
I passed on the message word-for-word,
without any mistakes.
Please tell Attorney Kujo that.
Let's do just a little bit more, okay?
-Please.
-Okay.
I spoke to Ms. Yakushimae at the hospital.
You asked her to do that, didn't you?
You asked her to tell Mr. Minegishi's wife
to retry the case for her son.
And you even wrote a referral letter
to your mentor, Attorney Nagaragi.
If you wanted to help them, you should've
just refused to defend the bad guy.
Just what kind of emotions
are driving your actions?
Attorney Karasuma,
I'll say it as often as it takes.
An attorney defends human rights
against authority.
An attorney's mission
is to protect their client.
I'm not asking
for a general answer like that.
I'm asking about your emotions.
Why did you decide to practice law,
Attorney Kujo?
Are you interviewing me again?
Then let me ask you in return.
Why did you decide to practice law,
Attorney Karasuma?
As a top graduate
of the University of Tokyo,
you could've been a bureaucrat.
It goes back to when I attended
the trial for a certain case.
Eighteen years ago,
I attended a trial where the defendant
killed solely to get the death penalty.
I was in elementary school.
I couldn't understand
the motives of the killer
or the emotions of the victims.
Meanwhile, only the law
remained clear and functioning.
I see.
I decided to seek the meaning of life
through learning about the law
and everything connected to it.
Is that so?
That trial…
I attended it too.
I know.
That's why I came here.
I'm here because I find you interesting.
I'll stick with you a little longer.
Fine by me.
Hey, Sogabe.
Veggies.
Deliver them.
Okay.
Later.
Excuse me.
Do you have a moment?
Huh?
What's in the bag?
Uh, well, they're snacks.
Do you mind if we check?
Well, these are just snacks.
-We'll confirm that.
-Oh, I'm sorry. Don't get mad at me.
I'm not mad.
May I have a moment?
Hey, what are you filming?
You're interfering with our duties.
Filming for a legitimate reason
isn't considered interference with duties.
This is for preserving evidence
in case of an unlawful investigation.
Who the hell are you?
I'm an attorney
with a nasty personality.
Subtitle translation by: Miho Kunisawa